AB Small/Mid Cap Value Portfolio
<head_breaker>

AB VPS SMALL/MID CAP VALUE PORTFOLIO
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE
The Portfolio's investment objective is long-term growth of capital.

FEES AND EXPENSES OF THE PORTFOLIO

This table describes the fees and expenses that you may pay if you buy and hold
shares of the Portfolio. Because the information does not reflect deductions at
the separate account level or contract level for any charges that may be
incurred under a contract, Contractholders that invest in the Portfolio should
refer to the variable contract prospectus for a description of fees and
expenses that apply to Contractholders. Inclusion of these charges would
increase the fees and expenses provided below.


SHAREHOLDER FEES (fees paid directly from your investment)
N/A

ANNUAL PORTFOLIO OPERATING EXPENSES (expenses that you pay each year as a
percentage of the value of your investment)


<TABLE>
<S>                                                                     <C>
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Management Fees                                                         .75%
Other Expenses:
 Transfer Agent                                                         .00%(a)
 Other Expenses                                                         .07%
                                                                        ----
Total Other Expenses                                                    .07%
                                                                        ----
Total Portfolio Operating Expenses                                      .82%
                                                                        ====
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


(a)Less than .01%.

EXAMPLES
The Examples are intended to help you compare the cost of investing in the
Portfolio with the cost of investing in other mutual funds. The Examples assume
that you invest $10,000 in the Portfolio for the time periods indicated and
then redeem all of your shares at the end of those periods. The Examples also
assume that your investment has a 5% return each year and that the Portfolio's
operating expenses stay the same. Although your actual costs may be higher or
lower, based on these assumptions your costs would be:


<TABLE>
<S>                                                                     <C>
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
After 1 Year                                                            $   84
After 3 Years                                                           $  262
After 5 Years                                                           $  455
After 10 Years                                                          $1,014
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


PORTFOLIO TURNOVER

The Portfolio pays transaction costs, such as commissions, when it buys or
sells securities (or "turns over" its portfolio). A higher portfolio turnover
rate may indicate higher transaction costs. These transaction costs, which are
not reflected in the Annual Portfolio Operating Expenses or in the Examples,
affect the Portfolio's performance. During the most recent fiscal year, the
Portfolio's portfolio turnover rate was 33% of the average value of its
portfolio.


PRINCIPAL STRATEGIES
The Portfolio invests primarily in a diversified portfolio of equity securities
of small- to mid-capitalization U.S. companies. Under normal circumstances, the
Portfolio invests at least 80% of its net assets in securities of small- to
mid-capitalization companies. For purposes of this policy, small- to
mid-capitalization companies are those that, at the time of investment, fall
within the capitalization range between the smallest company in the Russell
2500(R) Value Index and the greater of $5 billion or the market capitalization
of the largest company in the Russell 2500(R) Value Index.


Because the Portfolio's definition of small- to mid-capitalization companies is
dynamic, the lower and upper limits on market capitalization will change with
the markets. As of December 31, 2017, there were approximately 1,752 small- to
mid-capitalization companies, representing a market capitalization range from
approximately $22.7 million to approximately $13.8 billion.


32

<PAGE>



The Portfolio invests in companies that are determined by the Adviser to be
undervalued, using the Adviser's fundamental value approach. In selecting
securities for the Portfolio's portfolio, the Adviser uses its fundamental and
quantitative research to identify companies whose long-term earnings power is
not reflected in the current market price of their securities.

In selecting securities for the Portfolio's portfolio, the Adviser looks for
companies with attractive valuation (for example, with low price to book
ratios) and compelling success factors (for example, momentum and return on
equity). The Adviser then uses this information to calculate an expected
return. Returns and rankings are updated on a daily basis. The rankings are
used to determine prospective candidates for further fundamental research and,
subsequently, possible addition to the portfolio. Typically, the Adviser's
fundamental research analysts focus their research on the most attractive 20%
of the universe.

The Adviser typically projects a company's financial performance over a full
economic cycle, including a trough and a peak, within the context of forecasts
for real economic growth, inflation and interest rate changes. The Adviser
focuses on the valuation implied by the current price, relative to the earnings
the company will be generating five years from now, or "normalized" earnings,
assuming average mid-economic cycle growth for the fifth year.

The Portfolio's management team and other senior investment professionals work
in close collaboration to weigh each investment opportunity identified by the
research staff relative to the entire portfolio and determine the timing and
position size for purchases and sales. Analysts remain responsible for
monitoring new developments that would affect the securities they cover. The
team will generally sell a security when it no longer meets appropriate
valuation criteria, although sales may be delayed when positive return trends
are favorable. Typically, growth in the size of a company's market
capitalization relative to other domestically traded companies will not cause
the Portfolio to dispose of the security.

The Adviser seeks to manage overall portfolio volatility relative to the
universe of companies that comprise the lowest 20% of the total U.S. market
capitalization by favoring promising securities that offer the best balance
between return and targeted risk. At times, the Portfolio may favor or disfavor
a particular sector compared to that universe of companies. The Portfolio may
invest significantly in companies involved in certain sectors that constitute a
material portion of the universe of small- and mid-capitalization companies,
such as financial services and consumer services.

The Portfolio may enter into derivatives transactions, such as options, futures
contracts, forwards and swaps. The Portfolio may use options strategies
involving the purchase and/or writing of various combinations of call and/or
put options, including on individual securities and stock indices, futures
contracts (including futures contracts on individual securities and stock
indices) or shares of exchange-traded funds, or ETFs. These transactions may be
used, for example, to earn extra income, to adjust exposure to individual
securities or markets, or to protect all or a portion of the Portfolio's
portfolio from a decline in value, sometimes within certain ranges.

The Portfolio may invest in securities issued by non-U.S. companies.

The Portfolio may, at times, invest in shares of ETFs in lieu of making direct
investments in equity securities. ETFs may provide more efficient and
economical exposure to the types of companies and geographic locations in which
the Portfolio seeks to invest than direct investments.

PRINCIPAL RISKS

.  MARKET RISK: The value of the Portfolio's assets will fluctuate as the stock
   or bond market fluctuates. The value of its investments may decline,
   sometimes rapidly and unpredictably, simply because of economic changes or
   other events that affect large portions of the market. It includes the risk
   that a particular style of investing, such as the Portfolio's value
   approach, may underperform the market generally.


.  CAPITALIZATION RISK: Investments in small- and mid-capitalization companies
   may be more volatile than investments in large-capitalization companies.
   Investments in small-capitalization companies may have additional risks
   because these companies have limited product lines, markets or financial
   resources.

.  FOREIGN (NON-U.S.) RISK: Investments in securities of non-U.S. issuers may
   involve more risk than those of U.S. issuers. These securities may fluctuate
   more widely in price and may be less liquid due to adverse market, economic,
   political, regulatory or other factors.

.  CURRENCY RISK: Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may negatively affect
   the value of the Portfolio's investments or reduce its returns.

.  DERIVATIVES RISK: Derivatives may be illiquid, difficult to price, and
   leveraged so that small changes may produce disproportionate losses for the
   Portfolio, and may be subject to counterparty risk to a greater degree than
   more traditional investments.

.  MANAGEMENT RISK: The Portfolio is subject to management risk because it is
   an actively-managed investment fund. The Adviser will apply its investment
   techniques and risk analyses in making investment decisions for the
   Portfolio, but there is no guarantee that its techniques will produce the
   intended results.

As with all investments, you may lose money by investing in the Portfolio.

                                                                             33

<PAGE>



BAR CHART AND PERFORMANCE INFORMATION
The bar chart and performance information provide an indication of the
historical risk of an investment in the Portfolio by showing:

.  how the Portfolio's performance changed from year to year over ten years; and

.  how the Portfolio's average annual returns for one, five and ten years
   compare to those of a broad-based securities market index.

The performance information does not take into account separate account
charges. If separate account charges were included, an investor's return would
be lower. The Portfolio's past performance, of course, does not necessarily
indicate how it will perform in the future.

BAR CHART


                                   [CHART]

                            Calendar Year End (%)

  08       09      10       11      12      13      14      15      16      17
-------  ------  ------   ------  ------  ------   -----  ------  ------  ------
-35.58%  42.86%  26.91%   -8.39%  18.75%  38.06%   9.20%  -5.49%  25.09%  13.15%




During the period shown in the bar chart, the Portfolio's:

BEST QUARTER WAS UP 24.75%, 3RD QUARTER, 2009; AND WORST QUARTER WAS DOWN
-26.95%, 4TH QUARTER, 2008.

PERFORMANCE TABLE
AVERAGE ANNUAL TOTAL RETURNS

(For the periods ended December 31, 2017)



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1 YEAR 5 YEARS 10 YEARS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>    <C>     <C>
Portfolio*                                            13.15% 15.06%   9.87%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Russell 2500(R) Value Index
(reflects no deduction for fees, expenses, or taxes)  10.36% 13.27%   8.82%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Russell 2500/TM/ Index**
(reflects no deduction for fees, expenses, or taxes)  16.81% 14.33%   9.22%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>



 * Includes the impact of proceeds received and credited to the Portfolio
   resulting from class action settlements, which enhanced the Portfolio's
   performance for the 1-Year period ended December 31, 2017 by 0.11%.



** The performance table includes an additional index that shows how the
   Portfolio's performance compares with an index of securities similar to
   those in which the Portfolio invests.


INVESTMENT ADVISER
AllianceBernstein L.P. is the investment adviser for the Portfolio.

PORTFOLIO MANAGERS
The following table lists the persons responsible for day-to-day management of
the Portfolio's portfolio:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
EMPLOYEE            LENGTH OF SERVICE  TITLE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>                <C>
James W. MacGregor     Since 2005      Senior Vice President of the Adviser

Shri Singhvi           Since 2014      Senior Vice President of the Adviser
</TABLE>


ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

For important information about the purchase and sale of Portfolio shares, tax
information and financial intermediary compensation, please turn to ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION ABOUT PURCHASE AND SALE OF PORTFOLIO SHARES, TAXES AND FINANCIAL
INTERMEDIARIES, page 51 in this Prospectus.